# Chapter 8 Sample Code

  1. In class on Friday, February 6, we looked at examples 1, 2c and 4 from the `cpp` folder [here](https://github.com/TBSDrJ/Passing_to_functions_c_cpp).  These show the difference between passing by value vs. passing by reference in C++.  Passing by reference is not available in C.  You can also see more details about these in the PDF in this repo; there are summary notes in the Blackbaud Topics page from the whiteboard in class.  We will talk about passing by pointer later after we spend a little more time talking about what a pointer is.
  1. In a workshop on our Professional Development day, I made an AI-powered notebook about the PDF document of how to pass things to functions in C and C++.  It includes a 16 minutes podcast description of the dcoument, which you can make interactive (yes, you can interrupt the podcast and ask questions), an inforgraphic and so on. [That is here.](https://notebooklm.google.com/notebook/4ae7ef8c-68cf-45f5-b0f7-c62edfd3932e) This needs permission to access, I manually added everyone in the class to that list, so you have to be logged into your Bishop's account to access the Notebook version.
  1. In class on Tuesday, February 10, we talked about scope, and illustrated this with the examples seen in `scope.cpp` above.  This is all the same in C as it is in C++.
  1. In class on Thursday, Feb 12, we practiced writing a couple of functions in the parabola examples above.  Then, we looked at how to use a C++ `array` object, which has an interface that is kind of similar to a Python `list`.  There is also a `list` object in C++ with a similar interface.
  1. In class on Wednesday, Feb 18, we looked at C-style `array`s, and how to generate random numbers in C and C++.
  1. In class on Thursday, Feb 19, I showed a few tricks and tips that may help you with your 2048 lab.  Note: I posted a new version of the Lab Handout with some added test rows because the tests in the earlier version were insufficient.
  1. In class on Friday, Feb 27, I showed some code that demonstrates how my computer stores integers.  YMMV if you run this code yourself, but if you have a Mac M1+, it'll probably give the same results.  Things to notice: 
    -The 4 bytes of an integer are stored in *reverse* order (i.e. lowest place value on the right), this is called *Little-Endian* storage (the way we write numbers with lowest place value on the left would be *Big-Endian*).  This is in `memory_int.cpp`.  
    -We started to talk a bit about *memory pointers*, and you can see them in this code.  All of the rest of the code you write this school year in this class will require memory pointers, we will be talking a lot more about them.  See the Blackbaud Topics page for a couple of photos of notes about this.
  1. (See `memory_array.cpp`) In class on Monday, Mar 2, we looked at how C-style arrays are stored in memory, and started to look at pointer arithmetic.  We noticed that for ex, if `nums` is an array of data type `unsigned char`, then `nums[i]` is stored exactly `i` bytes after the first entry.  If we change the data type to `int`, then `nums[i]` is stored `4*i` bytes after, because each `int` takes up 4 bytes.  This is called `contiguous` storage, and it gives a lookup algorithm that has `O(1)` complexity, so it is very very fast for accessing entries.  We also looked at using the addition operator with pointers, noticing that, if `p` is a pointer to a `char` data type, then `p+1` is one byte past `p`, but if `p` is a pointer to an `int` data type of 4 bytes, then `p+1` is 4 bytes beyond `p`; the addition operator adjusts to the size of the data type.
  1. (See `memory_string.cpp`) In class on Wed Mar 4, we looked at how C++ manages storage with the `string` data type.  This is very similar to how it handles storage with the `vector` data type.  It starts by allocating a small amount of memory, then, if you append enough entries that the starting allocation is full, then it assigns a new block somewhere else that is 2x the size, and copies/moves the data that it has into the first half of that new block, and continues to append there.  Repeat as needed.  The storage is *contiguous*, just like it is with `array`s, but it is dynamically sized, unlike `array`s.  You get many of the advantages and disadvantages of an `array`, and the new disadvantage of needing to copy the contents from time to time.  If you have an idea of how many entries the vector will need, [you can specify the number of entries up front](https://cppreference.com/w/cpp/container/vector/reserve.html) and avoid the copying cost unless you grow beyond that capacity.